 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 31 of 40 
 CT and Others v. High Court of Kerala and Others, (2023) 11 S.C.R. 
674 wherein, on the aspect of legitimate expectation , it has been held as 
under: -   
“36. The doctrine of legitimate expectation does not 
impede or hinder the power of the public au thorities to 
lay down a policy or withdraw it. The public authority 
has the discretion to exercise the full range of choices 
available within its executive power. The public authority 
often has to take into consideration diverse factors, 
concerns, and inte rests before arriving at a particular 
policy decision. The courts are generally cautious in 
interfering with a bona fide decision of public authorities 
which denies a legitimate expectation provided such a 
decision is taken in the larger public interest. T hus, 
public interest serves as a limitation on the application of 
the doctrine of legitimate expectation. Courts have to 
determine whether the public interest is compelling and 
sufficient to outweigh the legitimate expectation of the 
claimant. While perfor ming a balancing exercise, courts 
have to often grapple with the issues of burden and 
standard of proof required to dislodge the claim of 
legitimate expectation.  
xxx    xxx    xxx 
42. In a constitutional system rooted in the rule of law, 
the discretion ava ilable with public authorities is 
confined within clearly defined limits. The primary 
principle underpinning the concept of rule of law is 
consistency and predictability in decision -making. A 
decision of a public authority taken without any basis in 
princi ple or rule is unpredictable and is, therefore, 
arbitrary and antithetical to the rule of law. The rule of 
law promotes fairness by stabilizing the expectations of 
citizens from public authorities. This was also considered 
in a recent decision of this Cour t in SEBI v. Sunil 
Krishna Khaitan, where it was observed that regularity 
and predictability are hall -marks of good regulation and 
governance.  This Court held that certainty and 