 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 27 of 40 
 prior to 2005 and residing in India had received their 
education in India and had p ursued by having some 
advantages and disadvantages like other children who are 
citizens of India, and could not be denied their right to 
participate in NEET examinations or such similar 
examinations. It was also held that no additional advantage 
was grante d to such class of people merely because they were 
born abroad and importantly, court took note of the 
amendment which introduced concession to OCI Card 
holders. Therefore, the Court concluded that when the right 
conferred was withdrawn and altered, in the  process leading 
to such change, should demonstrate application of mind, nexus 
to the object of such withdrawal or modification and any such 
decision had to be free of arbitrariness. In the light of this 
conclusion, the court held that the notification sav ed from the 
vice of non -application of mind and was in fact retroactive. It 
was in these circumstances that the Court held that only those 
persons who obtained OCI Cards after 04.03.2021 were 
rendered ineligible in terms of the notification.  
17. In the pre sent case, although the OCI Card relied upon by 
the Petitioner on 04.08.2022, the fact that she was in fact 
issued the OCI registration card first, on 02.11.2015. In such 
circumstances, the Petitioner's eligibility to claim the benefit 
of OCI card holder i n terms of the ruling in Anushka (supra) is 
undeniable. The rejection of her candidature at this stage, i.e. 
on 19.06.2023 is not supportable in law. She is consequently 
directed to be considered in remaining counselling rounds by 
the AIIMS and all partici pating institutions for PG Medical 
seats.  It is clarified that the consideration would be regarding 
seats that are unfilled on the date of this judgment whether 
reserved for SC/ST/OBC or other categories and such as 
specially earmarked for Bhutanese candid ates etc. if they can 
be filled by other candidates, like her. Furthermore, this 
facility should be open to the Petitioner as well as other 
candidates based upon the available records of those issued 
OCI cards prior to 04.03.2021 and who can participate in  
such counseling having regard to their performance in the 
NEET test, and their ranking. ” 