 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 19 of 40 
 existing rights of those can didates who were being considered 
for selection as they possessed the requisite qualifications 
prescribed by the Rules before its amendment moreover 
construction of amending Rules should be made in a 
reasonable manner to avoid unnecessary hardship to those  
who have no control over the subject matter . 
xxxx     xxxx    xxxx 
12. In view of the above discussions, we allow the appeal and 
set aside the order of the Tribunal dated September 30, 1987. 
We further direct the State Government to make appointments 
to the posts of Motor Vehicle Inspectors on the basis of the 
select list prepared and finalised by the Commission. The writ 
petition is also disposed of accordingly. There will be no order 
as to costs. ”   
       (emphasis supplied)   
 
28. Similarly in the latest ju dgment of the Supreme Court in the 
case of Pallavi v. Union of India (UOI) and Ors., 
MANU/SC/0953/2023 , wherein in paragraphs 14, 15, 16 and 17 it has 
been held as under:  
“14. The facts in this case are not disputed; undoubtedly the 
Petitioner was treated as a foreign national and allowed to 
appear in the NEET mains - as OCI cardholder; she even 
secured a fairly high rank. She was allowed to participate in 
the mock rounds of allocations which led to an indication that 
she would be offered PG in Paediatrics i n AIIMS and just 
before the first round of counselling she was informed that her 
status would no longer be as a foreign national and that she 
would be treated as an Indian national.  
15. A plain reading of the notification undoubtedly leads one 
to conclude that it withdraws the eligibility or privileges which 
had been hitherto conferred upon OCI Card holders regarding 
their parity with Indian nationals for appearing in All India 
examinations such as NEET. This meant that after the date of 
issuance of that no tification, i.e. 04.03.2021, such OCI card 
holders could not claim the privilege of eligibility for 