 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 23 of 40 
 the citizenship by descent or to renounce the citizenship 
of the foreign coun try and seek registration of the 
Citizenship of India did not arise to be made, since as 
an alternative to dual citizenship the benefit had been 
granted and was available to Petitioner No. 1 and the 
entire future was planned on that basis and that 
situatio n continued till the year 2021.  
53. Further, as on the year 2021 when the impugned 
notification was issued the Petitioner No. 1 was just 
about 18 years i.e., full age and even if at that stage, the 
Petitioner was to renounce and seek for citizenship of 
India as provided Under Section 5(1)(f)(g), the duration 
for such process would disentitle her the benefit of the 
entire education course from pre -school stage pursued 
by her in India and the benefit for appearing for the 
Pre-Medical Test which was available to her will be 
erased in one stroke. Neither would she get any special 
benefit in the country where she was born. Therefore in 
that circumstance when there was an assurance from a 
sovereign State to persons like that of the Petitioner No. 
1 in view of the right provided through the notification 
issued Under Section 7B(1) of Act, 1955 and all 'things 
were done' by such Overseas Citizens of India to take 
benefit of it and when it was the stage of maturing into 
the benefit of competing for the seat, all 'such things 
done' should not have been undone and nullified with 
the issue of the impugned notification by superseding 
the earlier notifications so as to take away even the 
benefit that was held out to them.  
54. Therefore, on the face of it the impugned notific ation 
not saving such accrued rights would indicate non 
application of mind and arbitrariness in the action. 
Further in such circumstance when the stated object 
was to make available more seats for the Indian Citizens 
and it is demonstrated that seats have  remained vacant, 
the object for which such notification was issued even 
without saving the rights and excluding the Petitioners 
and similarly placed OCI Cardholders with the other 