 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 18 of 40 
 made in the Rules on 14th May 1987 rendered the selection 
illegal.  Admittedly the amending Rule does not contain any 
provision enforcing the amended Rule with retrospective 
effect . In the absence of any express provisi on contained in the 
amending Rule it must be held to be prospective in nature . The 
Rules which are prospective in nature cannot take away or 
impair the right of candidates holding Diploma in Mechanical 
Engineering as on the date of making appointment as we ll as 
on the date of scrutiny by the Commission they were qualified 
for selection and appointment . In fact the entire selection in 
the normal course would have been finalised much before the 
amendment of Rules, but for the interim orders of the High 
Court.  If there had been no interim orders, the selected 
candidates would have been appointed much before the 
amendment of Rules. Since the process of selection had 
commenced and it could not be completed on account of the 
interim orders of the High Court, the a ppellants' right to 
selection and appointment could not be defeated by 
subsequent amendment of Rules.  
5.  It is well -settled rule of construction that every statute or 
statutory Rule is prospective unless it is expressly or by 
necessary implication made to  have retrospective effect.  
Unless there are words in the statute or in the Rules showing 
the intention to affect existing rights the Rule must be held to 
be prospective. If a Rule is expressed in language which is 
fairly capable of either interpretation i t ought to be construed 
as prospective only . In the absence of any express provision. 
or necessary intendment the rule cannot be given retrospective 
effect except in matter of procedure.  The amending Rule of 
1987 does not contain any express provision givi ng the 
amendment retrospective effect nor there is anything therein 
showing the necessary intendment for enforcing the Rule with 
retrospective effect. Since the amending Rule was not 
retrospective, it could not adversely affect the right of those 
candidate s who were qualified for selection and appointment 
on the date they applied for the post, moreover as the process 
of selection had already commenced when the amending Rules 
came into force.  The amended Rule could not affect the 