 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 3 of 40 
 contracted out or outsourced. The above  recommendation 
was accepted by the Government.  
2. Keeping in view the operation problems in outsourcing the 
jobs presently being done by the Followers, the proposal for 
continuation of the Cadre of Followers in CPMFs has been 
reconsidered by the Government and the following decisions 
have now been taken in the matter: - 
i) All posts of Followers/other Gr. D posts in CPMFs may 
be conv erted into Group C posts and be placed in PB -I 
with grade pay of Rs.2000/ -. 
ii) After conversion of posts as proposed above the posts 
may be designated as Rifleman (name of trade) in case of 
Assam Rifles and Constable (name of trade) in case of 
other CPMFs , as for example Constable (Carpenter), 
Constable (Cook) etc.  
iii) RRs will be modified to make recruitment in each 
trade and for such posts will have no linkage with the RRs 
for the post of Constable/ General Duty and Constable/ 
Driver.  
iv) There will be  no change in the total sanctioned 
strength of Battalion/ Company due to conversion of the 
posts of Followers in / as Gr. C posts.  
v) CPFs will submit the proposals for sanctioning of posts 
in the grade of Constable (Name of trade) against the 
posts which had been excluded earlier, while sanctioning 
other posts, on account of the recommendations of the 6th 
CPC for the abolition of the posts Followers/ Group D 
posts.  
3. The above decisions will be implemented by CPMFs 
subject to the following conditions: -  
i) The recruitment qualifications will not be lower than 
Matriculation ITI i.e. the lowest qualification prescribed 
by the 6th CPC for entry into Government Service.  
ii) The functions of the various trades would be gone into 
and multi -skilling introduced. T he additional posts to be 
created should take into account the impact of 
outsourcing (particularly in Static Formations) and multi -
skilling; and  