 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 2 of 40 
 present case to meet the ends of justice. ” 
 
2. At the outset, it may be stated here that this petition was 
dismiss ed by this Court vide order dated April 27, 2022, wherein this 
Court had inter alia  stated as under:  
“3. Vide the present writ petition, the petitioner is seeking 
quashing of the impugned letter dated 30.08.2018 issued by the 
respondent authority declarin g the petitioner ineligible for 
recruitment under the new Recruitment Rules, 2010 of 
Constable (Tradesmen) (Group „C‟ Post); directions to the 
respondents for issuance of the joining letter to the petitioner 
on the post of Follower Group „D‟ post (Washerme n) to which 
he was already selected in the recruitment process of October, 
2008 which now stands merged with Group „C‟ posts.  
4. It is not in dispute that the petitioner was selected to the post 
of enrolled  Follower (Group 'D' posts) (Washerman) in the 
recruitment process of October, 2008. Thereafter, vide order 
dated 29.10.2009 issued by Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Government of India declared as under:  
“6th Pay Commission in its report vide recommendation in 
para 7.19.45 recommended that all the posts in C PMFs 
should be combatised like the position existing in the Defence 
Forces. The Commission, accordingly, recommended 
abolition of the cadre of Followers. The Commission further 
recommended that any further recruitment in the grade of 
Followers should cease  immediately. The existing Followers 
should initially be placed in the -1S pay band (separately 
being recommended by the Commission for all Group D 
categories till the time they are re -deployed in the Group C 
posts). Proper training should be given to make  them 
combatised and on successful  completion of such training, 
they should be absorbed in the grade of combatant 
Constables against regular vacancies. The Commission 
finally recommended that all non essential jobs that can be 
done by outsiders without any  operational problems but are 
presently being done by Followers, should henceforth be 