 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 25 of 40 
 such notification. Though the Rule against retrospective 
construction is not applicable to statutes merely because 
a part o f the requisite for its action is drawn from a time 
antecedent to its passing, in the instant case the rights 
were conferred under the notification and such rights 
are being affected by subsequent notification, which is 
detrimental and the same should be a voided to that 
extent and be allowed to operate without such 
retroactivity.  
56. We note that it is not retrospective inasmuch as it 
does not affect the OCI Cardholders who have 
participated in the selection process, have secured a 
seat and are either under going or completed the MBBS 
course or such other professional course. However, it 
will act as retroactive action to deny the right to 
persons who had such right which is not sustainable to 
that extent. The goal post is shifted when the game is 
about to be over. Hence we are of the view that the 
retroactive operation resulting in retrospective 
consequences should be set aside and such adverse 
consequences is to be avoided.  
57. Therefore in the factual background of the issue 
involved, to sum up, it will have  to be held that though 
the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 is based on 
a policy and in the exercise of the statutory power of a 
Sovereign State, the provisions as contained therein 
shall apply prospectively only to persons who are born 
in a foreign  country subsequent to 04.03.2021 i.e. the 
date of the notification and who seek for a registration 
as OCI cardholder from that date since at that juncture 
the parents would have a choice to either seek for 
citizenship by descent or to continue as a foreig ner in 
the background of the subsisting policy of the Sovereign 
State.  
58. In light of the above, it is held that the Respondent 
No. 1 in furtherance of the policy of the Sovereign State 
has the power to pass appropriate notifications as 
contemplated Under  Section 7B(1) of the Citizenship 