 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 6 of 40 
 thereafter, the petitioner did not file petition for good 3 years.  
12. Thereafter, the petitione r again filed the petition, i.e. the 
present  petition, now and the delay is not properly explained.  
13. Even otherwise, we find no merit in the present petition and 
the same  is, accordingly, dismissed on merits as well as for the 
delay. ” 
 
3. The afore said jud gment was taken in an appeal before the 
Supreme Court by the petitioner in Civil Appeal No. 3452/2023, 
where by the Supreme Court has set aside the order dated April 27, 
2022 , by stating as under:  
“1. Leave granted.  
2. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied wi th the impugned 
judgment  and order dated 27.04.2022 passed by the High 
court of Delhi at New  Delhi in Writ Petition (C) No. 6679 of 
2022, by which the High  Court has dismissed the said Writ 
Petition, the original writ  petitioner has preferred the present 
appeal.  
3. Having heard Shri Pal1av Sisodiya, learned senior 
Advocate,  appearing for the appellant and Ms. Madhavi 
Divan, learned ASG  appearing for the respondent -Union of 
India and having gone through  the impugned judgment and 
order passed by the High Cour t dismissing  the writ petition, 
we are at pains to note that the manner in which  the High 
court has dismissed the writ petition is not appreciable  at all. 
The High Court has not at all considered the main  grievance 
on merits, namely, whether the subsequent  recruitment  
rules/procedure shall be applicable with respect to the earlier  
recruitment process or not. The High Court has observed that 
as such recruitment process of 2008 was cancelled and none of 
the candidates selected from the said recruitment proces s were 
given  appointment and therefore, the appellants lacks merit 
also cannot  be accepted. That was the exact grievance before 
the High Court  that the recruitment process of 2008 has been 
cancelled illegally  and by applying the subsequent regulations. 
Therefore, the High  Court ought to have considered the matter 