 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 33 of 40 
 doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation can be 
successfully invoked by individuals to claim substantive 
benefits or entitlements based on an existing promise or 
practice of a public authority. However, it is important to 
clarify that the doctrine of legitimate expectation cannot 
serve as an independent  basis for judicial review of 
decisions taken by public authorities. Such a limitation is 
now well recognized in Indian jurisprudence considering 
the fact that a legitimate expectation is not a legal right. 
It is merely an expectation to avail a benefit or  relief 
based on an existing promise or practice. Although the 
decision by a public authority to deny legitimate 
expectation may be termed as arbitrary, unfair, or abuse 
of power, the validity of the decision itself can only be 
questioned on established pr inciples of equality and non -
arbitrariness under Article 14. In a nutshell, an 
individual who claims a benefit or entitlement based on 
the doctrine of legitimate expectation has to establish: (i) 
the legitimacy of the expectation; and (ii) that the denial 
of the legitimate expectation led to the violation of Article 
14. 
xxxx    xxxx         xxxx 
46. Rule 2(c)(iii) of the 1961 Rules provided at the 
material time that 25%  of the posts of District and 
Sessions Judges should be filled by direct  recruitment 
from  the Bar on the basis of aggregate marks/grade 
obtained  in the written examination and the viva -voce 
conducted by the High  Court. The scheme of examination 
specifically stipulates that there shall  be no cut off marks 
for the viva voce. Further, the notific ation dated  30 
September 2015 also stipulates that the merit list of 
successful  candidates would be prepared on the basis of 
the total marks obtained  in the written examination and 
the viva voce.  
47. The statutory rule coupled with the scheme of 
examinatio n and the 2015  examination notification 
would have generated an expectation in the  petitioners 
that the merit list of selected candidates will be drawn on 