 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 21 of 40 
 procedure adopted has a nexus with the object for which 
change is made and the application of mind by the 
Respondent No. 1, before issuing the impugned 
notification requires examination.  
47. As noted, the right of the OCI Cardholders is a 
midway right in the absence of dual citizenship. When a 
statutory right was conferred and such right is being 
withdrawn through a notification, the process for 
withdrawal is required to demonstrate that the action 
taken is reasonable and has nexus to the purpose. It 
should not be arbitrary, without basis and exercise of 
such power cannot be exercised unmindful of 
consequences merely because it is a sovereign power. 
To examine this aspect, in addition to the contentions 
urged by the learned Additional Solicitor General we 
have also taken note of the objection statement filed 
with the writ petition. Though detailed contentions are 
urged with regard to the status  of a citizen and the 
sovereign power of the State, as already noted, in these 
petitions the sovereign power has not been questioned 
but the manner in which it is exercised in the present 
circumstance is objected. The contention of learned 
Additional Solic itor General is that the intention from 
the beginning was to grant parity to OCI Cardholders 
only with NRIs. On that aspect as already noted above 
we have seen the nature of the benefit that had been 
extended to the Petitioners and the similarly placed 
Petitioners under the notifications of the year 2005, 
2007 and 2009. The further contention insofar as 
equating the OCI Cardholders to compete only for the 
seats which are reserved for NRIs and to exclude the 
OCI Cardholders for admission against any seat 
reserved exclusively for the Indian citizens, across the 
board, even to the persons who were bestowed the right 
earlier, it is stated that the rationale is to protect the 
rights of the Indian citizens in such matters where State 
may give preference to its cit izens vis -à-vis foreigners 
holding OCI Cards. It is further averred in the counter 