 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 35 of 40 
 justification, when analyzed  on its own terms, is 
compelling, it is not grounded in legality. The High  
Court‟s decision to apply a minimum cut -off for the viva 
voce frustrated the  substantive legitimate expectation of 
the petitioners. Since the decision  of the High Court is 
legally untenable and fails on the touchstone of  fairness, 
consistency, and predictability, we hold that such a 
course of  action is arbitrary and violative of Article 14.  
iii. What should this Court d o? 
xxxx    xxxx         xxxx 
55. The following are our conclusions in view of the 
above discussions:  
(i) The principles of good administration require that the 
decisions  of public authorities must withstand the test of 
consistency,  transparency, and predic tability to avoid 
being termed as arbitrary  and violative of Article 14;  
(ii) An individual who claims a benefit or entitlement 
based on the  doctrine of substantive legitimate 
expectation has to establish  the following: (i) the 
legitimacy of the expectatio n; and that (ii) the  denial of 
the legitimate expectation led to a violation of Article 14;  
(iii) A public authority must objectively demonstrate by 
placing relevant  material before the court that its 
decision was in the public interest  to frustrate a clai m of 
legitimate expectation;  
(iv) The decision of the High Court of Kerala to apply a 
minimum  cut-off to the viva voce examination is contrary 
to Rule 2(c)(iii) of  the 1961 Rules.  
(v) The High Court‟s decision to apply the minimum cut -
off marks for  the viv a voce frustrates the substantive 
legitimate expectation of  the petitioners. The decision is 
arbitrary and violative of Article 14.  
(vi) In terms of relief, we hold that it would be contrary 
to the public  interest to direct the induction of the 
petitioners  into the Higher  Judicial Service after the 
lapse of more than six years. Candidates  who have been 
selected nearly six years ago cannot be unseated.  
They were all qualified and have been serving the district 