 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 34 of 40 
 the basis of the aggregate of total marks received in the 
written examination  and the viva voce. More over, the 
petitioners would have expected no  minimum cut -off for 
the viva voce in view of the express stipulation in the  
scheme of examination. Both the above expectations of 
the petitioners  are legitimate as they are based on the 
sanction of statutory rul es, scheme of examination, and 
the 2015 examination notification issued  by the High 
Court. Thus, the High Court lawfully committed itself to  
preparing a merit list of successful candidates on the 
basis of the total  marks obtained in the written 
examination  and the viva voce.  
ii. Whether the High Court has acted unlawfully in 
relation to its  commitment?  
xxxx    xxxx         xxxx 
51. Under the unamended 1961 Rules, the High Court 
was expected to draw  up the merit list of selected 
candidates based on the aggre gate marks  secured by the 
candidates in the written examination and the viva voce,  
without any requirement of a minimum cut -off for the 
viva voce. Thus,  the decision of the Administrative 
Committee to depart from the expected  course of 
preparing the merit list of the selected candidates is 
contrary  to the unamended 1961 Rules. It is also 
important to highlight that the  requirement of a minimum 
cut-off for the viva voce was introduced after  the viva 
voce was conducted. It is manifest that the petitioners 
had no notice that such a requirement would be 
introduced for the viva voce  examination. We are of the 
opinion that the decision of High Court is  unfair to the 
petitioners and amounts to an arbitrary exercise of 
power.   
52. The High Court‟s decision also fail s to satisfy the test 
of consistency  and predictability as it contravenes the 
established practice. The High  Court did not impose the 
requirement of a minimum cut -off for the viva  voce for 
the selections to the post of District and Sessions Judges 
for 2013  and 2014. Although the High Court‟s 