 
W.P.(C) 6679/2022                                                                     Page 24 of 40 
 students is to be classified as one without nexus to the 
object. As taken n ote earlier during the course this 
order, the right which was granted to the OCI 
cardholders in parity with the NRIs was to appear for 
the Pre -Medical Entrance Test along with all other 
similar candidates i.e. the Indian citizens. In a situation 
where it h as been demonstrated that the Petitioner No. 1 
being born in the year 2003, has been residing in India 
since 2006 and has received her education in India, 
such student who has pursued her education by having 
the same 'advantages' and 'disadvantages' like t hat of 
any other students who is a citizen of India, the 
participation in the Pre -Medical Entrance Test or such 
other Entrance Examination would be on an even keel 
and there is no greater advantage to the Petitioner No. 
1 merely because she was born in Cal ifornia, USA. 
Therefore, the right which had been conferred and 
existed had not affected Indian citizens so as to abruptly 
deny all such rights. The right was only to compete. It 
could have been regulated for the future, if it is the 
policy of the Sovereig n State. No thought having gone 
into all these aspects is crystal clear from the manner in 
which it has been done.  
55. In the above circumstance, keeping in view, the 
object with which the Act, 1955 was amended so as to 
provide the benefit to Overseas Citi zen of India and in 
that context when rights were given to the OCI 
cardholders through the notifications issued from time 
to time, based on which the OCI cardholders had 
adopted to the same and had done things so as to 
position themselves for the future, t he right which had 
accrued in such process could not have been taken away 
in the present manner, which would act as a 
'retroactive' notification. Therefore, though the 
notification ex -facie does not specify retrospective 
operation, since it retroactively d estroys the rights 
which were available, it is to be ensured that such of 
those beneficiaries of the right should not be affected by 